# PokemonTypeChartRandomizer
A tool to Randomize the Type Chart Matchup Table of a Pokémon Crystal or Pokemon Emerald ROM
Currently supports:
- Pokemon - Crystal Version (UE) (V1.0) [C][!].gbc `sha1: F4CD194BDEE0D04CA4EAC29E09B8E4E9D818C133`
- crystal-speedchoice-v7.2.gbc `sha1: 19AB11096EB2BA6BF9A8360093B2DDAE3E7ABBAB`
- pokeemerald.gba `sha1: f3ae088181bf583e55daf962a92bb46f4f1d07b7`
- pokeemerald-speedchoice-1.2.1.gba `sha1: C65E8F3DC990484CE522A979CDBCF9732A2F5AAB`
- pokeemerald-ex-speedchoice-0.3.0.gba `sha1: A57527512AA3856C43808BED9E4B2F1FF6FB2FE6`

# Type Chart Tracker
I would suggest using Demki's tracker found here: https://demki.github.io/poketypechart/  
Using that tracker, you can upload the spoiler log .csv file generated by this program to either:
 - Double check if you correctly kept track of the type matchups.
 - Or if you like, as an easy color coded way to peek at the spoiler log.

## How to use

IMPORTANT If you would like to randomize the Pokemon or moves / key items,  
please use those randomizers first THEN use this tool on the randomized ROMs 

First run the '.exe' file from the dist.zip folder, Download from 'Releases'.  
Click 'OpenROM' and select a clean or randomized ROM (Make sure the base ROM is supported by this randomizer!)  
Make sure the correct Gen is selected for the game you are randomizing.  
Use Gen6+ for EX, and Gen2+ for everything else. Gen1 is currently not supported.  
Then select the settings you want for generating a random Type Chart using the Sliders.  
If you would like a completely random type chart (very unbalanced) have each slider set to it's minimum and maximum values.  
Click on 'Example=>' to generate an example chart to get a feel for the settings.    
Click on 'Randomize ROM' and specify the seed (or leave blank for a random one)  
then name the randomized Pokemon ROM, a spoiler log .csv file will be gerenated with the same name. 

To make a custom type chart click on the 'edit' check mark box,  
and use the four buttons on top to modify the current type chart however you wish.  
Then click on 'Save ROM using Example Chart' to generate a ROM with a custom type chart.  

## How to make Suggestions and feedback / Report Issues
If you have any issues / suggestions please reach out to me on discord or report an issue to the github.  
Discord username: NPO#5612
